Banas yen Lauren's southern did a video
in response to the problem of nihilism
and offering you various constructive
suggestions if you are struggling with
nihilism or if you're choosing not to be
a nihilist which include converting to
Catholicism have you considered that if
you are nihilist and you're you're
looking to lauren southern for guidance
maybe maybe you should considering
nihilism is literally defined as not
feeling any sense of religion or deeper
purpose to life of course number four is
maybe looking into religion and I think
I'll let you take this away so as I
mentioned before I am Catholic
so for Catholics you know Christians you
think of your ultimate purpose in life
is obviously to get to heaven and this
is tip number five is have an
overarching story and narrative that you
want to pursue let's just make up
something you you can't actually believe
in but then treat it like a religion
anyway some kind of big narrative
nihilism the dictionary definition
anyways is the rejection of all
religious and moral principles and the
belief that life is meaningless
Loren's Southern's video is actually
titled five cures for nihilism cures and
of course this is even more amusing to
me because one of the cures posed is is
religion itself and I think many people
might see nihilism itself instead as a
cure for religion but much more broadly
of course it is a cure for any ideology
the most fundamental thing we have to
get across to people is nihilus is that
yes nihilism is a real philosophy
nihilism is not just an act of teenage
rebellion against your high school
principal nihilism is a real philosophy
with zone literature and philosophers
with its own analytical value with even
its own ethical value and it makes
people's lives meaningful frankly from
my perspective it's self-evident that
being a nihilist is a lot more positive
than for example joining Islam as a
religion I used to be a Buddhist I can
say genuinely I see the advantages of
nihilism even over Buddhism but when you
look at a religion like Judaism or Islam
that actually involves cutting off the
foreskin of your penis
and maybe losing 50% of the nerve
endings you've got in that region of
your body for the rest of your life
sexually crippling you to some extent
hmm and let's not even get into clitter
ectomy a female genital mutilation which
is also a part of the Muslim faith
not so much Christianity or Judaism
these days yeesh
we live in a world where people will
literally cut off their dicks for faith
but then you you have to genuinely
believe because if you don't genuinely
believe then of course you'll have
doubts I've gone through nihilistic
periods when in my life especially
through my teens and it's always when my
faith is a bit wavering and Lauren
southern can sit there with her caked on
makeup and her bleached blonde hair and
pretend it's all fun and games to sit
there and kind of preach Catholicism for
whatever wacky 21st century relativistic
reason and then when you look back at
the reality of what Catholicism has been
to the indigenous peoples of South
America to the indigenous peoples of
Australia to the indigenous peoples of
Canada what it was even for the peoples
of Europe during the Dark Ages what it
meant to the peoples of Eastern Europe
when the church was trying to expand its
power and destroy the pagans there there
were Crusades within Europe people there
were white on white Crusades people want
to forget about that
you know the unspeakable barbarity
violence and just frankly stupidity
that's encompassed in this religion
including yes yes y'all Galileo putting
a man in prison for daring to iterate
the theory that the Earth revolves
around the Sun instead of vice versa the
earth being the center of the solar
system with the Sun revolving around it
it was a punishable offence to take all
of that and to pose it now in the year
2018 to say that religion and
specifically the Catholic religion is a
cure for nihilism and and at the same
time to characterize nihilism as if it's
an illness in want of a cure to me well
this is the sort of thing that at least
merits a very casual youtube video I
made it reply at the end of the day I
don't give up hope because I do believe
in God so it's pretty much what happens
when earth in the end doesn't really
matter this is where the tone of the
video suddenly gets much more somber and
serious
implicitly what these women are
presenting to you in this video
invites you to imagine that if you have
a meaningless life if you have an
unhappy life the cure for this is belief
because of your existential anguish
unhappiness or sense of aimlessness is a
lack of belief and it's actually very
important that we challenge that
assumption I don't even mean on some
kind of social abstract political level
I mean for you as an individual
psychologically if you're unhappy with
your life if your life is meaningless to
you why would you or anyone assume that
the solution is belief now some people
might assume the solution is to join a
sports team that's not completely insane
joining the Catholic Church with its
history of genocide slavery genital
mutilation you name it what do you think
about it what do you think about it
putting your faith in any ideology but
especially a disproven mass murder based
ideology of any all you the history of
mass murder like Catholicism or like
communism this isn't just wildly
irrational it's actually a solution that
doesn't relate in any meaningful way to
the problem on a personal level keeping
real I really lack the words to express
to you how much better my life became
how much profoundly better my life
became what I became a nihilist because
nihilism isn't just a critique of belief
but when you really do start living as a
nihilist and seeing the world through
this philosophy
you stop wanting to believe in things
and so you lose all of the anxiety and
agony that arises out of wanting to
believe in things that just can't be
true and then being disillusioned when
of course they they turn out to be not
what you want to be are looking for
meaning and things looking seeking
meaning in things outside of yourself in
this world again not necessarily
religion the fundamental error that all
of these belief systems engage in is
precisely looking in the world outside
you for a relationship of authority
instead of regarding those worldly
authorities as merely authors as merely
people who struggled in their own way to
create something meaningful
starting from a blank sheet of paper as
you to you yourself in your own way must
start from a blank sheet of paper and
create something meaningful in your life
so the first solution is philosophy and
self-knowledge
of course Brittney and I are not experts
on these issues you know the questions
we have to deal with are how is it
possible that we live in a world where
so many people are willing to kill
others and even kill themselves for the
sake of a belief how is it that belief
has such a tremendous power to tyrannize
whole societies and to tyrannize an
isolated individual even when there is
no priest watching you when there's no
authority figure looking over you what
is this what is this relationship
between a human being and an imaginary
object whether or not it happens to be
God whether it happens to be a more
complex system of beliefs like communism
that can't be boiled down to belief in
just one thing atheism ultimately can
only take you so far
atheism only concerns the problem of God
and the solution to that they pose is
that there is no God or there are no
gods
it's very fundamentally different to
approach the same problems be they big
or small from the standpoint of nihilism
you know there's this there's the same
from Latin equal this like no from any
block of wood and Idol may be carved you
know you can have this religious
mentality it doesn't necessarily fasten
onto what God
it doesn't necessarily fasten onto a
statue of Jupiter or Zeus or Jesus or
some other you know religious tradition
but the point is to say there is nothing
to be believed in well I I can remember
what it was like to live when I was
really looking for meaning in the
outside world and in my case it wasn't
primarily religion it was philosophy and
even political philosophy and even say
disciplines like economics but I was
looking for the meaning of life in the
world outside me looking for things to
believe in looking for things to have
faith in and the fundamental shift that
took place when I instead you know
started to simply regard these
authorities as mere authors as what they
were doing not as setting down truths
for me to relate to but as mere
authorship when I instead could look in
a detached and sympathetic way at a book
whether the author was someone who died
over a thousand years ago a great and
famous name or someone from you know our
own century or what have you when I
could I could sympathize with their
struggle filling up a blank page and
when I saw my own life also as a blank
page that I stood in a creative
relationship towards you know instead of
you know thinking of the world outside
me as let's say so much earth burying
the truth that these philosophers were
digging up that they weren't you know
discovering and and presenting something
objectively real that I was beholden to
that we had to serve the truth and so on
of instead seeing these other
philosophers these other authors these
other political leaders these other
authorities as mere authors as people
who themselves were struggling with a
creative tasks you know not a task of
discovery not of discovering something
that's already there but a task of
sitting down with a blank piece of paper
of trying to create something meaningful
something meaningful that matters to
themselves and that matters to other
people and again of course this is the
ultimate irony when you're a nihilist
it's not that you regard the Bible as
something good or evil it's not that you
regard the holy texts of Buddhism as
something good or evil you simply do not
regard them as something to be believed
in in the same sense that we can look at
literature etc etcetera all these things
are just the products of human
creativity because when we've overcome
belief itself we've overcome not just
faith but the desire to have faith
wanting to have faith then all of these
texts equally are really just works of
art they're really just so much
literature for our delectation they
cease to add this power or to tyrannize
us they cease to have the power to
create whole societies and drive other
societies to its extinction they
certainly lose the power to drive us to
mutilate our own our own genitals as I
say even Judaism and Islam to the
largest and Christianity millions and
millions of Christians are still engaged
in circumcision as so many of those
religions still do to this day
so first things last when I encounter
people with this misconception when I
encounter people who think that nihilism
is just an act of teenage rebellion
against the high school principal to me
people have this kind of supercilious
and dismissive attitude or pursue
presume to talk about curing nihilism as
if it's a disease what do I tell them
atheists present a critique of God they
disprove the existence of God however
you'd like to put that ok nihilism also
rejects the Christian God however what
nihilism does is that it is a critique
of belief itself so the problem that
atheism is posed to solve or counter is
God
and thus belief in God but what nihilism
addresses is belief belief as such and
belief is at the root of such an
unbelievable range of aberrant human
behavior why would it be so hard for
people to see that belief is something
that needs a cure when belief leads to
you know people literally cutting off
their own foreskins when it leads to the
unbelievable excesses and atrocities of
the whole history of human religion and
when frankly it just leads to the
enforced mediocrity of the dark ages in
Europe we don't have to look so far
beyond our own history we don't have to
look beyond the 17th century in the
history of England England 1632 1650
that short period of history trust me
start on Wikipedia tonight belief itself
I wouldn't go so far to say that it's an
illness but certainly when I see someone
like this offering to cure nihilism I
really have to ask instead why is it
that so few people are talking about a
cure for belief about us yen